README.md, before:

# tldr

[![Build Status][travis-image]][travis-url]
[![Gitter chat][gitter-image]][gitter-url]
[travis-url]: https://travis-ci.org/tldr-pages/tldr
[travis-image]: https://img.shields.io/travis/tldr-pages/tldr.svg
[gitter-url]: https://gitter.im/tldr-pages/tldr
[gitter-image]: https://img.shields.io/gitter/room/tldr-pages/tldr.svg

*tldr* is a collection of simplified and community-driven man pages.

## What does tldr mean?
TL;DR stands for "Too Long; Didn't Read".
It originates in Internet slang, where it is used to indicate parts of the text skipped as too lengthy.
Read more in the [TLDR article on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TL;DR).

## What is tldr?

New to the command-line world? Or just a little rusty?
Or perhaps you can't always remember the arguments to `lsof`, or `tar`?

Maybe it doesn't help that the first option explained in `man tar` is:

```
-b blocksize
   Specify the block size, in 512-byte records, for tape drive I/O.
   As a rule, this argument is only needed when reading from or writing to tape drives,
   and usually not even then as the default block size of 20 records (10240 bytes) is very common.
```

Surely people could benefit from simplified "show me the common usages" man pages. What about:

![tldr screenshot](http://raw.github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/master/screenshot.png)

This repository is just that:
an ever-growing collection of examples
for the most common UNIX / Linux / OSX / SunOS commands.

## Clients

You can access these pages on your computer using one of the following clients:

- [Node.js client](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr-node-client) : `npm install -g tldr`
- Python clients:
  - [tldr-python-client](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr-python-client) : `pip install tldr`
  - [tldr.py](https://github.com/lord63/tldr.py): `pip install tldr.py`
- [Go client](https://github.com/pranavraja/tldr): `go get github.com/pranavraja/tldr`
  (or [platform binaries](https://github.com/pranavraja/tldr/releases))
- [Elixir client](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr_elixir_client) (binaries not yet available)
- [C++ client](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr-cpp-client): `brew install tldr-pages/tldr/tldr`
- Android clients:
  - [tldr-viewer](https://github.com/gianasista/tldr-viewer), available on
    [Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=de.gianasista.tldr_viewer)
  - [tldroid](https://github.com/hidroh/tldroid), available on
    [Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=io.github.hidroh.tldroid)
- iOS client:
  - [tldr-man-page](https://github.com/freesuraj/TLDR), available on
    [App Store](https://appsto.re/sg/IQ0-_.i)
- [Ruby client](https://github.com/YellowApple/tldrb): `gem install tldrb`
- Rust clients:
    - [rust-tldr](https://github.com/rilut/rust-tldr) (online lookup): `cargo install tldr`
    - [tldr-rs](https://github.com/dbrgn/tldr-rs) (offline caching, not yet published)
- [R client](https://github.com/kirillseva/tldrrr): `devtools::install_github('kirillseva/tldrrr')`
- [Dart client](https://github.com/hterkelsen/tldr): `pub global activate tldr`
- [Web client](https://github.com/ostera/tldr.jsx): https://ostera.github.io/tldr.jsx
- [Perl5 client](https://github.com/shoichikaji/perl-tldr): `cpanm App::tldr`
- [Emacs client](https://github.com/kuanyui/tldr.el)
- [Bash client](https://github.com/raylee/tldr)
- [Crystal client](https://github.com/porras/tlcr): `brew install porras/tap/tlcr`

Let us know if you are building one and we can add it to this list!

## Contributing

- Your favourite command isn't covered?
- You can think of more examples for an existing command?

Contributions are most welcome!
Have a look at the [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
and go ahead!

## Similar projects

- [Cheat](https://github.com/chrisallenlane/cheat) allows you to create and view interactive cheatsheets on the command-line. It was designed to help remind *nix system administrators of options for commands that they use frequently, but not frequently enough to remember.

- [Bro pages](http://bropages.org/) are a highly readable supplement to man pages. Bro pages show concise, common-case examples for Unix commands.

Commit message:

Adding link to Clients wiki page in README.md

README.md, after:

# tldr

[![Build Status][travis-image]][travis-url]
[![Gitter chat][gitter-image]][gitter-url]
[travis-url]: https://travis-ci.org/tldr-pages/tldr
[travis-image]: https://img.shields.io/travis/tldr-pages/tldr.svg
[gitter-url]: https://gitter.im/tldr-pages/tldr
[gitter-image]: https://img.shields.io/gitter/room/tldr-pages/tldr.svg

*tldr* is a collection of simplified and community-driven man pages.

## What does tldr mean?
TL;DR stands for "Too Long; Didn't Read".
It originates in Internet slang, where it is used to indicate parts of the text skipped as too lengthy.
Read more in the [TLDR article on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TL;DR).

## What is tldr?

New to the command-line world? Or just a little rusty?
Or perhaps you can't always remember the arguments to `lsof`, or `tar`?

Maybe it doesn't help that the first option explained in `man tar` is:

```
-b blocksize
   Specify the block size, in 512-byte records, for tape drive I/O.
   As a rule, this argument is only needed when reading from or writing to tape drives,
   and usually not even then as the default block size of 20 records (10240 bytes) is very common.
```

Surely people could benefit from simplified "show me the common usages" man pages. What about:

![tldr screenshot](http://raw.github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/master/screenshot.png)

This repository is just that:
an ever-growing collection of examples
for the most common UNIX / Linux / OSX / SunOS commands.

## Clients

You can access these pages on your computer using one of the following clients:

- [Node.js client](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr-node-client) : `npm install -g tldr`
- Python clients:
  - [tldr-python-client](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr-python-client) : `pip install tldr`
  - [tldr.py](https://github.com/lord63/tldr.py): `pip install tldr.py`
- [Go client](https://github.com/pranavraja/tldr): `go get github.com/pranavraja/tldr`
  (or [platform binaries](https://github.com/pranavraja/tldr/releases))
- [Elixir client](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr_elixir_client) (binaries not yet available)
- [C++ client](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr-cpp-client): `brew install tldr-pages/tldr/tldr`
- Android clients:
  - [tldr-viewer](https://github.com/gianasista/tldr-viewer), available on
    [Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=de.gianasista.tldr_viewer)
  - [tldroid](https://github.com/hidroh/tldroid), available on
    [Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=io.github.hidroh.tldroid)
- iOS client:
  - [tldr-man-page](https://github.com/freesuraj/TLDR), available on
    [App Store](https://appsto.re/sg/IQ0-_.i)
- [Ruby client](https://github.com/YellowApple/tldrb): `gem install tldrb`
- Rust clients:
    - [rust-tldr](https://github.com/rilut/rust-tldr) (online lookup): `cargo install tldr`
    - [tldr-rs](https://github.com/dbrgn/tldr-rs) (offline caching, not yet published)
- [R client](https://github.com/kirillseva/tldrrr): `devtools::install_github('kirillseva/tldrrr')`
- [Dart client](https://github.com/hterkelsen/tldr): `pub global activate tldr`
- [Web client](https://github.com/ostera/tldr.jsx): https://ostera.github.io/tldr.jsx
- [Perl5 client](https://github.com/shoichikaji/perl-tldr): `cpanm App::tldr`
- [Emacs client](https://github.com/kuanyui/tldr.el)
- [Bash client](https://github.com/raylee/tldr)
- [Crystal client](https://github.com/porras/tlcr): `brew install porras/tap/tlcr`

Let us know if you are building one and we can add it to this list!

There is also a comprehensive [list of clients in Wiki](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/wiki/TLDR-clients).

## Contributing

- Your favourite command isn't covered?
- You can think of more examples for an existing command?

Contributions are most welcome!
Have a look at the [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
and go ahead!

## Similar projects

- [Cheat](https://github.com/chrisallenlane/cheat) allows you to create and view interactive cheatsheets on the command-line. It was designed to help remind *nix system administrators of options for commands that they use frequently, but not frequently enough to remember.

- [Bro pages](http://bropages.org/) are a highly readable supplement to man pages. Bro pages show concise, common-case examples for Unix commands.
